# FLIGHT-DELAY-PREDICTION__Stats_Assignment

As the world’s economy is moving forward, the demand for air travel is also increasing considerably. The issue of flight delay is getting serious, because of which the aviation industry is suffering from loses. For travellers, flight delay causes the trouble in travelling, bad mood, as well as the loss of time and economy; as for the airport, flight delay causes serious disruptions in the operation of the airport; and for an airline, they have to suffer economically and their reputation also degrades due to flight delays. Flight delay has become the shackles of the development of the aviation industry. Flight delays lead to negative impacts, mainly economical for commuters, the airline industry and airport authorities. Furthermore, in the domain of sustainability, it can even cause environmental harm by the rise in fuel consumption and gas emissions.
Regression is frequently used for prediction and forecasting. Linear and Logistic regression are popularly used for predictive analysis. Regression analysis is a form of predictive modelling technique which investigates the relationship between a dependent (target) and independent variable (s) (predictor). This technique is used for forecasting, time series modelling and finding the causal effect relationship between the variables.

Decision Tree helps in making optimal decisions. It is well suited for problems where instances are represented by attribute value and when training data contains an error. It is also applicable to the situation when the target function has a discrete output value. It implicitly performs variable screening and requires relatively less effort from the user for data preparation. 
In this project, we have applied logistic regression and decision trees to predict flight delays. We chose logistic regression over linear regression as it does not allow negative values and also helps in predicting as it has values between 0 to 1 only.
